RC disaster recovery - planning (#525)
BCDevOps/developer-experience: docs/DRSites/Plan.md

## Disaster Recovery (DR) Planning for RocketChat

"Rocketchat ~~is~~ might be down, what do I do?" - question from Platform Services Team.

### Background
We are exploring new OpenShift Platform on Cloud in Canada region, which gives us the ability to host some of the platform services there. For example, we have been migrating OCP101 training materials as the first pilot. Now we are planning to setup a disaster recovery site for RocketChat as second step and SSO the third. Before starting down the journey, we'd like to ask you, our chat community, on what you could expect. And more importantly, to learn from the community on best practices and experiences!

### Current RocketChat DR Site Ideas:

**Plan A: A maintenance instance:**

pros:
- quick and easy to spin up, with no dependency on other application or systems
- starts with clean chats focusing on communicating the maintenance/troubleshooting progress

cons:

> - user cannot continue on previous conversations until production RocketChat is brought back up again

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- no history sharing is available between the production and maintenance instances. No content from the main production instance is available when switching to the maintenance instance.  Users cannot continue on previous conversations until production RocketChat is brought back up again. After switching back to the main production instance, the content generated in the maintenance instance is not available anymore.
```

- incoming and outgoing webhooks temporarily unavailable

**Plan B: A fully migrated production instance:**

pros:
- still have access to all previous conversation temporarily
- no need to login again

cons:

> - time consuming to migrate all production data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- time consuming to migrate all production data
- will require a complex setup to achieve active-active data replication which may be even more challenging due to the network latency between the on-prem production instance and the failover cloud-hosted instance. 
```

> - still experience temporary service downtime during migration as to prevent data corruption

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- users will experience a temporary service downtime during the initial data migration from the production instance to the maintenance instance to avoid data corruption
```
